hi guys
so this evening i've sat down with my
laptop
and i'm currently deciding what i'm
going to study this year
for those of you who don't know i am
planning on studying to become
a fellow of the institute and faculty of
actuaries the ifoa
which is the uk professional body of
actuaries
it will probably take around four five
years maybe more to
pass all of these exams so i'm in it for
the long haul but today
i need to figure out which modules i'm
going to sit
in my first sitting my first exam
sitting will be
april next year april 2021
i have started a new job so at the
moment i'm working monday to friday
full time but very shortly i'm going to
be taking
one day off per week as a study day it's
quite exciting because
i have not been studying now for
about four months since i did my final
university exams
and this might sound really sad but
i've actually really missed studying so
qualification structure basically there
are
seven modules which are core modules
in actuarial statistics actuarial
mathematics
and business and then beyond that
there's specialist modules but
to start with i'm going to be focusing
on getting the core modules done
i have been using my laptop here to read
through the syllabus
of some of the core modules to figure
out which ones i'd like to attempt
first and i've been immediately drawn to
cs1
which is the first actuarial statistics
module
the reason for that is that i've covered
a lot of
the content before when i was in sixth
form sitting a level maths
i did two statistics modules and a lot
of this
seems familiar from a level and also at
uni
i did do a teeny teeny bit of stats just
to give you a flavor
of what this module contains statistical
distributions
statistical analysis descriptive
statistics and graphical presentation
principles of statistical inference
linear regression and generalized linear
models
glms and bayesian statistics and this is
definitely one that i want to do first
so fine i'm choosing to take
cs1 but generally people
take two core exams at once the trouble
is the core modules are not all the same
size
so cs1 the actuarial statistics first
module
is about average size but then cs2
which is the second actuarial statistics
module
is much bigger it's possibly about
1.5 times the size of cs1
it just looks like taking cs1 and cs2
together
would be a massive amount of work for
one sitting
however it would be quite nice to do the
two actuarial statistics modules
together because i'll just be in that
statistics
mode you know cs2 builds on cs1
you look at time series analysis methods
stochastic
processes graduation methods
and the other thing to bear in mind with
both cs1 and cs2 is they both have a
component
in r the programming language r which i
actually have not used before i have
never programmed an r before so
that's going to be something i need to
learn my other option
to go with cs1 is cb1
cb1 is business finance analyzing
published accounts
understanding how companies are governed
and structured
suggesting appropriate ways to finance a
company
it looks cool and it's also smaller
it's about half the size of cs2
if i was to take cb1 with cs1
it would be a much lighter workload and
then there are
other core modules i could choose but
i'm not going to choose them so
i'm not going to run you through them
now there has been a bit of choice and
you know me
i'm very indecisive i am wondering
whether
i might get through cs1 in about
half the expected time considering i
think
i've got quite a good working knowledge
of about half the content already
and if that was the case then it would
probably be reasonable to take cs2 with
cs1 but then equally
i might start cs1 and find it really
really tough
but actually guys hot of the press i
have just realized
that i don't need to register for the
exams until
february so technically i can put off
the decision
as to which two modules i'm gonna take
until february
i could start with cs1 now and then
see how fast i'm getting through it and
then decide which second module i will
start studying for
based on how much time i feel i have
left after finishing studying cs1 i
think that's what i'm going to do
there is a company called act head who
supplied the study materials
for the ifoa exams course notes
past exam papers flash cards you name it
lots of different study materials
and they also run tutorials with actual
teachers that you can attend for all the
different modules
and i'm fortunate enough that my company
are
paying for all the study materials i
need but the problem
is if i don't know what my second module
is going to be yet
i can only order the study materials for
cs1
at this point i don't want to book
things for
cs2 or cb1 and then change my mind
because the study materials are quite
expensive but sometimes the study
materials sell
out and in particular the tutorials get
fully booked up because there's only a
set amount of spaces in each tutorial
basically by not booking a tutorial now
for my second module because i don't
know what it's going to be
i'm risking not getting onto a tutorial
at all
and the tutorials are supposed to be
really helpful
and really increase your chances of
passing
so really it's a bit risky i don't know
what to do
just now i have booked my
cs1 tutorial and study materials in fact
let me tell you the study materials i've
ordered i have ordered the
combined materials pack for cs1
i ordered it purely for the reason that
they said it's ideal
if you're sitting a subject for the
first time which i am
and so this is going to give me the core
reading course notes and practice
questions
something called series x assignments
i'm guessing that's just extra practice
questions
i've also made sure i've ordered the
course notes as an ebook
so i can get them up on my computer just
because the exams are online
and open book at the moment because of
the covert situation
and so in the exam i can do quick
searches on the course notes if i need
to refer to something quickly
and i also ordered a set
which is acted solutions with exam
technique
it's just past exam papers with full
work
solutions i'm actually really looking
forward to getting this because
when i was at uni and i did exam papers
there were never any
marked solutions or work solutions for
me to refer to
so i just never really knew if i was
doing the right thing
whereas this it's gonna be like i'm at
school again
and i've got a marked scheme to refer to
and
the plan is to start studying probably
very shortly after this video goes up
maybe a week or two after this video
goes up i'm going to commence my studies
again you can expect
lots of study content soon because i'm
going to be buried in books
properly doubting myself and complaining
that it's really hard but
i can do this i can take on this
challenge thank you very much for
watching this video
hope you're all well please do give the
video a like if you enjoyed it and
subscribe to my channel
i've got an instagram account as well
which you can follow i'll link that in
the description
and yeah see you later guys bye
[Music]
you